[Doc] [KubeRay] Add end-to-end tutorial for real-world RayJob workload (batch inference) (#38857)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/cluster/kubernetes/examples/rayjob-batch-inference-example.md

> (rayjob-batch-inference-example)=

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(kuberay-batch-inference-example)=
```

You use `kuberay-batch-inference-example` in `examples.md` rather than `rayjob-batch-inference-example`.

Author: Thanks!

# RayJob Batch Inference Example

This page demonstrates how to use the RayJob custom resource to run a batch inference job on a Ray cluster.

> We will use an image classification workload.  The example is based on <https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/data/examples/huggingface_vit_batch_prediction.html>. Please see that page for a full explanation of the code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will use an image classification workload. The example is based on <https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/data/examples/huggingface_vit_batch_prediction.html>. Please see that page for a full explanation of the code.
```

> We will use an image classification workload.  The example is based on <https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/data/examples/huggingface_vit_batch_prediction.html>. Please see that page for a full explanation of the code.

Reviewer: What does `<https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/data/examples/huggingface_vit_batch_prediction.html>` look like?

Author: Just an ordinary link with the URL spelled out! My linter complains if I don't add "<" and ">"

## Prerequisites

> You must have a Kubernetes cluster running and `kubectl` configured to use it, and GPUs available.  We provide a brief tutorial for setting up the necessary GPUs on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE), but you can use any Kubernetes cluster with GPUs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must have a Kubernetes cluster running and `kubectl` configured to use it, and GPUs available. We provide a brief tutorial for setting up the necessary GPUs on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE), but you can use any Kubernetes cluster with GPUs.
```

## Step 0: Create a Kubernetes cluster on GKE (Optional)

Please follow [this tutorial]((kuberay-gke-gpu-cluster-setup) to create a Kubernetes cluster on GKE with four Nvidia T4 GPUs.  If you already have a Kubernetes cluster with GPUs, you can skip this step.

## Step 1: Install the KubeRay Operator

> Once `kubectl` is configured to connect to your cluster, you can install the KubeRay operator.

Reviewer: This sentence seems to be unnecessary.

Follow [this document](kuberay-operator-deploy) to install the latest stable KubeRay operator from the Helm repository.

It should be scheduled on the CPU pod.

## Step 2: Submit the RayJob

> Now we can submit the RayJob.  Our RayJob spec is defined in [ray_v1alpha1_rayjob.batch-inference.yaml](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/blob/master/ray-operator/config/samples/ray-job.batch-inference.yaml).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can create the RayJob custom resource. Our RayJob spec is defined in [ray-job.batch-inference.yaml](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/blob/master/ray-operator/config/samples/ray-job.batch-inference.yaml).
```

  Observed Generation:    2
  Ray Cluster Name:       rayjob-sample-raycluster-j6t8n
  Ray Cluster Status:
    Endpoints:
      Client:        10001
      Dashboard:     8265
      Gcs - Server:  6379
      Metrics:       8080
    Head:
      Pod IP:             10.112.1.3
      Service IP:         10.116.1.93
    Last Update Time:     2023-08-22T22:47:44Z
    Observed Generation:  1
    State:                ready
  Start Time:             2023-08-22T22:48:02Z
Events:
  Type    Reason   Age   From               Message
  ----    ------   ----  ----               -------
  Normal  Created  36m   rayjob-controller  Created cluster rayjob-sample-raycluster-j6t8n
  Normal  Created  32m   rayjob-controller  Created k8s job rayjob-sample
```

To view the logs, first find the name of the pod running the job with `kubectl get pods`.

Sample output:

```bash
NAME                                        READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
kuberay-operator-8b86754c-r4rc2             1/1     Running     0          25h
rayjob-sample-raycluster-j6t8n-head-kx2gz   1/1     Running     0          35m
rayjob-sample-w98c7                         0/1     Completed   0          30m
```

> Here the Ray cluster is still running because we did not set `shutdownAfterJobFinishes` in the `RayJob` spec.  If you set `shutdownAfterJobFinishes` to `true`, the cluster will be shut down after the job finishes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here the Ray cluster is still running because we did not set `shutdownAfterJobFinishes` in the `RayJob` spec. If you set `shutdownAfterJobFinishes` to `true`, the cluster will be shut down after the job finishes.
```

(kuberay-batch-inference-example)=

# RayJob Batch Inference Example

> This page demonstrates how to use the RayJob custom resource to run a batch inference job on a Ray cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how to use the RayJob custom resource to run a batch inference job on a Ray cluster.
```

We will use an image classification workload. The example is based on <https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/data/examples/huggingface_vit_batch_prediction.html>. Please see that page for a full explanation of the code.

## Prerequisites

> You must have a Kubernetes cluster running and `kubectl` configured to use it, and GPUs available. We provide a brief tutorial for setting up the necessary GPUs on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE), but you can use any Kubernetes cluster with GPUs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must have a Kubernetes cluster running,`kubectl` configured to use it, and GPUs available. This example provides a brief tutorial for setting up the necessary GPUs on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE), but you can use any Kubernetes cluster with GPUs.
```

## Step 0: Create a Kubernetes cluster on GKE (Optional)

If you already have a Kubernetes cluster with GPUs, you can skip this step.

> Otherwise, please follow [this tutorial](kuberay-gke-gpu-cluster-setup), but substituting the following GPU node pool creation command to create a Kubernetes cluster on GKE with four Nvidia T4 GPUs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Otherwise, follow [this tutorial](kuberay-gke-gpu-cluster-setup), but substitute the following GPU node pool creation command to create a Kubernetes cluster on GKE with four Nvidia T4 GPUs:
```

```sh
gcloud container node-pools create gpu-node-pool \
  --accelerator type=nvidia-tesla-t4,count=4,gpu-driver-version=default \
  --zone us-west1-b \
  --cluster kuberay-gpu-cluster \
  --num-nodes 1 \
  --min-nodes 0 \
  --max-nodes 1 \
  --enable-autoscaling \
  --machine-type n1-standard-64
```

> In this example, we use four [Nvidia T4](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/gpus#nvidia_t4_gpus) GPUs. The machine type is `n1-standard-64`, which has [64 vCPUs and 240 GB RAM](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/general-purpose-machines#n1_machine_types).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example uses four [Nvidia T4](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/gpus#nvidia_t4_gpus) GPUs. The machine type is `n1-standard-64`, which has [64 vCPUs and 240 GB RAM](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/general-purpose-machines#n1_machine_types).
```

## Step 1: Install the KubeRay Operator

Follow [this document](kuberay-operator-deploy) to install the latest stable KubeRay operator from the Helm repository.

> It should be scheduled on the CPU pod.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Schedule it on the CPU pod.
```

## Step 2: Submit the RayJob

Now we can create the RayJob custom resource. Our RayJob spec is defined in [ray-job.batch-inference.yaml](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/blob/master/ray-operator/config/samples/ray-job.batch-inference.yaml).

> You can download the file via `curl` as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Download the file with `curl`:
```

```bash
curl -LO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/kuberay/master/ray-operator/config/samples/ray-job.batch-inference.yaml
```

Note that the `RayJob` spec contains a spec for the `RayCluster` that is to be created for the job. For this tutorial, we use a single-node cluster with 4 GPUs.  For production use cases, we recommend using a multi-node cluster where the head node does not have GPUs, so that Ray can automatically schedule GPU workloads on worker nodes and they won't interfere with critical Ray processes on the head node.

> Note the following fields in the `RayJob` spec, which specify the Ray image and the GPU resources for our Ray node:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note the following fields in the `RayJob` spec, which specify the Ray image and the GPU resources for the Ray node:
```

```yaml
        spec:
          containers:
            - name: ray-head
              image: rayproject/ray-ml:2.6.3-gpu
              resources:
                limits:
                  nvidia.com/gpu: "4"
                  cpu: "54"
                  memory: "54Gi"
                requests:
                  nvidia.com/gpu: "4"
                  cpu: "54"
                  memory: "54Gi"
              volumeMounts:
                - mountPath: /home/ray/samples
                  name: code-sample
          nodeSelector:
            cloud.google.com/gke-accelerator: nvidia-tesla-t4 # This is the GPU type we used in the GPU node pool.
```

To submit the job, run the following command:

```bash
kubectl apply -f ray-job.batch-inference.yaml
```

> We can check the status with `kubectl describe rayjob rayjob-sample`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Check the status with `kubectl describe rayjob rayjob-sample`.
```

(rayjob-batch-inference-example)

# RayJob Batch Inference Example

This page demonstrates how to use the RayJob custom resource to run a batch inference job on a Ray cluster.

We will use an image classification workload.  The example is based on <https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/data/examples/huggingface_vit_batch_prediction.html>. Please see that page for a full explanation of the code.

## Prerequisites

You must have a Kubernetes cluster running and `kubectl` configured to use it, and GPUs available.  We provide a brief tutorial for setting up the necessary GPUs on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE), but you can use any Kubernetes cluster with GPUs.

## Deploy KubeRay

Make sure your KubeRay operator version is at least v0.6.0.

The latest released KubeRay version is recommended.

> For installation instructions, please follow [the documentation](../deploy/installation.md).

Author: I probably need to update this link.

Reviewer: Yes

> ## Step 0: Create a Kubernetes cluster on GKE (Optional)

Reviewer: Can we reuse `user-guides/gcp-gke-gpu-cluster.md`?

Author: Ideally yes, let me unify these docs in a followup PR.  It will take some time to go through and test it end to end again, since we need to make sure the machine type and resource requests don't result in CUDA out of memory errors.

GKE will automatically prevent CPU-only pods such as the Kuberay operator from being scheduled on this GPU node pool. This is because GPUs are expensive, so we want to use this node pool for Ray GPU nodes only. To set this behavior up manually, you can use taints and tolerations; see the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/).

Finally, run the following command to download credentials and configure the Kubernetes CLI to use them.

```sh
gcloud container clusters get-credentials batch-gpu-cluster --zone us-west1-b
```

For more details, see the [GKE documentation](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/cluster-access-for-kubectl).

> ## Step 1: Install the KubeRay Operator

Reviewer: I'd recommend keeping a single source for the KubeRay installation instructions.

```
Follow [this document](kuberay-operator-deploy) to install the latest stable KubeRay operator from the Helm repository.
```

Once `kubectl` is configured to connect to your cluster, you can install the KubeRay operator.

```sh
# Install both CRDs and KubeRay operator v0.5.0.
helm repo add kuberay https://ray-project.github.io/kuberay-helm/
helm repo update
helm install kuberay-operator kuberay/kuberay-operator --version 0.5.0

# It should be scheduled on the CPU node. If it is not, something is wrong.
```

## Step 2: Submit the RayJob

> Now we can submit the RayJob.  Our RayJob spec is defined in [ray_v1alpha1_rayjob.batch-inference.yaml](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/blob/master/ray-operator/config/samples/ray_v1alpha1_rayjob.batch-inference.yaml).

Reviewer: We need to update the name of the YAML file.

Note that the `RayJob` spec contains a spec for the `RayCluster` that is to be created for the job. For this tutorial, we use a single-node cluster with 4 GPUs.  For production use cases, we recommend using a multi-node cluster where the head node does not have GPUs, so that Ray can automatically schedule GPU workloads on worker nodes and they won't interfere with critical Ray processes on the head node.

Note the following fields in the `RayJob` spec, which specify the Ray image and the GPU resources for our Ray node:
```yaml
        spec:
          containers:
            - name: ray-head
              image: rayproject/ray-ml:2.6.3-gpu

>               resources:

Reviewer: Update resource configurations.

                limits:
                  nvidia.com/gpu: "4"
                requests:
                  cpu: "54"
                  memory: "54Gi"
              volumeMounts:
                - mountPath: /home/ray/samples
                  name: code-sample
          nodeSelector:
            cloud.google.com/gke-accelerator: nvidia-tesla-t4 # This is the GPU type we used in the GPU node pool.
```

To submit the job, run the following command:

> ```bash

Reviewer: Add an instruction about downloading the YAML file with a `curl` command:

```sh
curl -LO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/kuberay/master/ray-operator/config/samples/${YOUR_YAML_FILE}
```

> kubectl apply -f ray_v1alpha1_rayjob.batch-inference.yaml

Reviewer: Update YAML name.

```

To view the logs, first find the name of the pod running the job with `kubectl get pods`.

Sample output:

```bash
NAME                                        READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
kuberay-operator-8b86754c-r4rc2             1/1     Running     0          25h
rayjob-sample-raycluster-j6t8n-head-kx2gz   1/1     Running     0          35m
rayjob-sample-w98c7                         0/1     Completed   0          30m
```

Here the Ray cluster is still running because we did not set `shutdownAfterJobFinishes` in the `RayJob` spec.  If you set `shutdownAfterJobFinishes` to `true`, the cluster will be shut down after the job finishes.

Next, run

```text
kubetcl logs rayjob-sample-w98c7
```

to get the standard output of the `entrypoint` command for the `RayJob`.  Sample output:

```text
[...]
Running: 62.0/64.0 CPU, 4.0/4.0 GPU, 955.57 MiB/12.83 GiB object_store_memory:   0%|          | 0/200 [00:05<?, ?it/s]
Running: 61.0/64.0 CPU, 4.0/4.0 GPU, 999.41 MiB/12.83 GiB object_store_memory:   0%|          | 0/200 [00:05<?, ?it/s]
Running: 61.0/64.0 CPU, 4.0/4.0 GPU, 999.41 MiB/12.83 GiB object_store_memory:   0%|          | 1/200 [00:05<17:04,  5.15s/it]

> Running: 61.0/64.0 CPU, 4.0/4.0 GPU, 1008.68 MiB/12.83 GiB object_store_memory:   0%|          | 1/200 [00:05<17:04,  5.15s/it]

Reviewer: This is a bit weird: `1/200 -> 1/1`.

Author: Yeah, it's also a bit weird that out of all five of the samples there are only two distinct memory locations (and they're all labeled "tench"). @amogkam any ideas about this (or do you know who might know?) Here's the code we're running https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/1361/files#diff-730a5adb3d338965921ab6f6faa635f5a08f93c69b6e5ab2806f6a97a168b2daR47
